# Goals for the project, what do I want from it?
## The larger plan
In order to demonstrate the business value of a new wireless mesh protocol to the executives of my engineering org I need to be able to convince them of the definitive increased scalability of deployments that it offers. In lieu of expensive pilot testing I'm instead opting for a realistic / conservative simulation environment where I can demonstrate the protocol's efficacy in monte-carlo fashion.  

Because the protocol is intended to support building sensors, attentuation and path loss are an important consideration in the scalability of the mesh. The simulation environment will need to be able to generate realistic floor plans for the types of buildings we deploy in: namely mid-to-large commercial and industrial buildings in NA and the EU.  

Once a building floor-plan is generated based on parameters -- like sq-ft, class of building, and seed -- I will then need the program to automatically place sensors in the building based on rules like: number of sensors per room or per sq foot, height on the wall, etc. Once all sensors are placed as necessary I will then need to be able to model the attenuation / path-loss between each and every device. This could either be done via complex methods like ray-tracing (I beleive) to model constructive and destructive interference, or a simple model which I have made that takes the shortest distance between the two, and the sum of the attenuations of each wall that lie in the path.  

Given the graph of path-losses from each node to eachother and the list of each node which can reference its building location details, I'll then combine my other monte-carlo simulation to simulate the lighting curves and respective device performance and behaviors. It's imporant to note that these are solar-powered sensors with adaptive sample-rates and connection intervals and throughput allowances from peers, and transmit gain in order to balance power consumption. I'll then simulate the scenario for a year and tally important details about the outcomes. The scoring will relate to average sample-rate, overall energy usage, how many devices are running energy-negative, how many devices cannot connect to a controller, and network radius (more hops means more depth in building from a controller)  

Once this is in place, not only can I compare protocol simulation scores but how much more scalable different versions of the protocol are. I can also use machine-learning / neural-network tools to adjust protocol behaviors and train the NNs using thousands of these simulations. 

### Alternate workflows
One imporant workflow for demonstrating to management is to be able to run a single building simulation and be able to visualize the scenario in a basic 3D program with essential viewer tools like panning, zooming, etc. I want the ability to see and filter the connections based on signal strength and based on usage. I want the connections to be color coded and to be able to highlight them my mousing over them to show relevant info like path-loss and chosen radio gain and throughput. I'd also like to be able to visualize which devices were able to reach the controllers, either directly or indirectly, and which were not by colorization. I want to be able to mouse over each of the different device icons and see the relevant information like net-power income, sample-rates, number of dependents, etc. I'd also like a visual filter / colorization option to demonstrate the net power income of the devices.  

## The building generator  
Given this long-term arch I'd like to build this building generator application so that it is modular and useful in different use cases in the future but expressly built to facilitate the big-picture described above. It should be a python package with easy-to-use APIs.  

With this building generator I'd like to build along-side it the visualizer application with ways to register the device visuals, the links between them etc, as well as what info is demonstrated on mouse over.
